Deployment models for cloud computing

When selecting a cloud strategy, a company must consider factors such as required cloud application components, preferred resource management tools, and any legacy IT infrastructure requirements.

The three cloud computing deployment models are cloud-based, on-premises, and hybrid.

To learn more about deployment models, choose each of the following three tabs.

Cloud-based deployment

On-premises deployment

Hybrid deployment
Run all parts of the application in the cloud.
Migrate existing applications to the cloud.
Design and build new applications in the cloud.
In a cloud-based deployment model, you can migrate existing applications to the cloud, or you can design and build new applications in the cloud. You can build those applications on low-level infrastructure that requires your IT staff to manage them. Alternatively, you can build them using higher-level services that reduce the management, architecting, and scaling requirements of the core infrastructure.

For example, a company might create an application consisting of virtual servers, databases, and networking components that are fully based in the cloud.

Benefits of cloud computing

Consider why a company might choose to take a particular cloud computing approach when addressing business needs.

To learn more about the benefits, expand each for the following six categories.

Trade upfront expense for variable expense

Stop spending money to run and maintain data centers

Stop guessing capacity

Benefit from massive economies of scale

Increase speed and agility

Go global in minutes
Additional resources

To learn more about the concepts that were explored in Module 1, review these resources.

AWS glossary(opens in a new tab)
Whitepaper: Overview of Amazon Web Services(opens in a new tab)
AWS Fundamentals: Overview(opens in a new tab)
(opens in a new tab)
What is cloud computing?(opens in a new tab)
Types of cloud computing(opens in a new tab)
Cloud computing with AWS(opens in a new tab)
